---
title: One-on-Ones
---

One-to-ones are a foundational management tool. This guide provides a
template and detailed guidance on how to hold effective 1:1s. It’s
written with engineering leaders in mind -- supervisors, facilitators,
and possibly functional leads -- but likely could be applied, with
tweaks, to other situations.

The fundamental purpose of 1:1s is **to build a relationship**. Strong
relationships are the cornerstone of leadership: everything else we do
becomes easier when we have strong relationships. At 18F, 1:1s help
managers fulfill our mission *servant leadership*: we can better help
the people on our team when we have a strong enough relationship that
they feel comfortable asking for help.

There are many ways of holding 1:1s. As you practice, you’ll probably
find a format and style that fits you and your partner[^1]. Since
getting starting holding 1:1s can be daunting to people who haven’t done
it before, this document provides a model as a starting point. Here’s
the basic model:

-   Hold **half-hour 1:1s weekly**, and **never miss them**
    (rescheduling is OK).

-   1:1s are work meetings, so **have a consistent agenda**. A good one
    is: ten minutes for them, ten minutes for you, ten minutes to talk
    about the future.

-   **The most important part of the agenda is your partner’s**. Let
    them lead the conversation, even if it means skipping whatever
    you’ve got on your agenda.

That’s the summary; the rest of this document goes into (much) more
detail on the [mechanics](#basic-mechanics), 
[specifics of the agenda](#what-should-i-say-or-do-during-their-part), and
[further reading](#further-reading).

Finally, note that 1:1s are a tool, not the point in their own right. At
the end of this document there are few notes on [alternate strategies](#alternate-strategies) 
for fulfilling the relationship-building goals of 1:1s. Experimentation is
in our DNA; please feel free to use this as a starting point to find
what works!

## Basic Mechanics

There are many ways you could conduct 1:1s; a good default is: weekly,
half-hour meetings, with a consistent agenda.

### Suggested cadence: Weekly

The most common successful cadence for 1:1s is to hold them **weekly**.

More important than the specific cadence, however, is this: **never
cancel a 1:1**. You don’t need to be rigid about schedules -- it’s fine
to reschedule -- but missing a 1:1 sends a very powerful message that
your relationship with your partner isn’t important. It is important --
it’s the most important -- so once you’ve picked a cadence: stick to
it[^2].

To new managers, or to managers new to 1:1s, weekly can seem like a lot,
but there are several reasons why weekly 1:1s tend to be the most
effective:

1.  **The goal of 1:1s is building relationships, and that’s hard to do
    if you don’t speak frequently.** Think about the people you have
    really solid, good relationships with. I’ll bet most of them are
    people you talk to at least weekly, if not more. It’s very hard to
    build a relationship with someone you only see monthly. And, when
    you do hold less-frequent 1:1s, they tend to be much more filled
    with tactical work and leave little time for longer-term,
    goal-oriented work.

2.  **People think about the their work in weekly chunks**. Quick: what
    did you work on two weeks ago? You probably have to check your
    notes or calendar, right? That meeting you held two Tuesdays ago
    is already a faded memory, isn’t it? We tend to think of our work
    in weekly chunks, so less frequent 1:1s miss pieces of our
    partner’s work. In effect, if you’re only meeting monthly, you’re
    “sampling” only 25% of a partner’s time. So, the less frequently
    you hold 1:1s, the more likely it is that you’ll miss
    important data.

3.  **1:1s are a foundation for offering feedback and coaching in a
    regular, structured environment.** If you are trying to work with
    someone on a specific issue, weekly is probably the longest you
    could possibly go between adjusting course. If you’re only able to
    help someone change course once or twice a month, they’ll go a lot
    longer down an ineffective path before you can help. (In fact, if
    you’re really getting into a solid feedback/coaching rhythm,
    you’ll probably find it even more effective to deliver feedback
    even more regularly and granularly. But, that’s a difficult and
    harder skill to develop, and starting with weekly is good practice
    for taking that next step.)

4.  **It’s a more effective use of your time**: you’ll tend to get
    interrupted much less if folks they’ll have their next 1:1 soon.
    Although scheduling them weekly seems like it’s a lot of time
    up-front, most managers find they end up getting time back overall
    by reducing interrupts.

### Suggested Agenda: 30 minutes, yours/theirs/future.

One-to-ones are meetings, and **effective meetings have agendas**. A
common mistake is to schedule 1:1s regularly, but not use the time
effectively. Talking about sports or the weather every week might help
build a relationship, but probably not a good *working* relationship --
and, more importantly, it’s not a valuable use of anyone’s time.

So, effective 1:1s should have an agenda. There are probably many
different effective agendas for 1:1s, including one suggested below, but
first a few principles:

1.  **Your partner should own the agenda, not you.** That is, their
    needs trump yours. This doesn’t mean you’re off the hook to plan
    and manage the time, but it does mean that you should expect your
    partner to bring their own items to discuss, and to prioritize
    their requirements over yours. After all, you can always ask them
    for more time if you’ve got specific things to work on. There’s a
    delicate push-pull here: you want to make sure this meeting is
    valuable to them, but you also have a responsibility to keep
    things on-track and on-topic. So let them drive the agenda… but
    steer things back towards work if they go too far off-topic.

2.  Consistency is good, so **strive to follow the same agenda
    week-to-week**. This helps make 1:1s a comfortable, familiar
    place, and that in turn helps make it easier for your partners to
    bring up difficult topics. And, a goal of 1:1s is to gather data
    about how your team is doing, and if you follow a consistent
    agenda it’ll be easier to notice when things change (and ask about
    it).
    
    Some managers (I’m one) like to kick off the 1:1 with the same
    exact words each week, just to sort of signal the entrance to the
    1:1 space. Some examples: “How are you?” “How’s it going?” “What’s
    on your mind?” “How’d last week go?”
    
    Along the same lines, you may want to end each meeting with a
    similar, consistent question. For example, Holly ends every 1:1
    I’ve had with her with “How can I help you this week?” Questions
    like this help make sure any pressing needs are covered, and acts
    as a good bookend to the starting question – it signals that
    official 1:1 time is now over.

3.  **Good 1:1s should cover not just the short-term, tactical work, but
    also longer-term goals**. 1:1s aren’t just status updates (if you
    need regular status updates, do that separately); they’re about
    supporting people’s work in a complete way. This means that you’ll
    often talk about the day-to-day, but that you also need to make
    sure you come back to long-term goals and support them.

Here’s a good good starting point for an agenda: **30 minutes, first
their agenda, then yours, then talk about the future**. In other words:
open the 1:1 with whatever your partner wants to discuss, then move into
anything on your agenda, and finally close by talking about any
long-term work or goals y’all are working on together. Ten minutes for
each is a fine rough guideline, though holding to this rigidly isn’t
important -- it’d be weird to say “OK, your ten minutes are up, moving
on”. This is a good template for a few reasons:

-  It puts the partner’s agenda first, which emphasizes the importance
   of their items, and ensures that if anything is especially “meaty”
   you can spend more than the suggested ten minutes talking through
   their stuff. In practice you’ll probably find that many weeks you
   spend the entire time on their agenda -- and that’s OK. That’s why
   we put it first!

-  It speaks to the “shared” nature of the meeting: it’s primarily your
   partner’s agenda, but you’ll typically have some things to cover,
   too, so it reminds both of you to move on to that.

-  It reminds you to spend some time on the long view, rather than just
   the day-to-day. In practice, it’s rare to talk long-term goals
   every week -- long term work takes time, and doesn’t often
   change week-to-week. So, most weeks, you can end early. But,
   having the long-term on the standing agenda helps remind both of
   you to revisit it when needed.

Again, there are probably many different effective agendas for a 1:1,
but this format is simple, flexible, and hits all the goals laid out
above. Any good format will probably include these three things, perhaps
in a different arrangement or format.

More details on each of those “three parts” follows:

## What should I say or do during “their part”?

Generally: not much! Most of the time, you’ll just want to **listen
and [take notes](#taking-notes)**. This doesn’t mean be completely
quiet: you’ll want to ask follow-ups, make sure you understand, and
signal that you’re following along (a.k.a. [*active
listening*](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Active_listening)). But most
of the time during this part you should be listening, not talking.

You do want to try to steer things towards work. Small talk is fine:
remember, you’re building a relationship, so some chit-chat about
weekend plans is totally OK and normal. But this is also work-time, so
you should try to gently steer things towards work eventually.

Finally, be aware of the difference between a vent and a problem.
Sometimes, people will come to the 1:1 just needing to complain or get
something off their chest. In these cases, listening, asking questions,
and making sure they feel heard is all you need to do. But other times,
there’s a problem to be solved, and in those cases you’ll want to talk
through solutions, suggest directions, and steer towards action. Telling
the difference is an art -- and in practice there’s more of a spectrum
than a solid line -- and you’ll get better with practice and as you
build that consistent personal relationship. Once you spot the
difference more clearly, it’ll be easier to know how to respond.

## What should I say during “my portion” of the meeting?

First, it’s fine if you don’t get to this every week -- or even most
weeks! After all, if your partner is constantly coming to 1:1s with
meaty topics that take all the time, that stuff’s probably well worth
the time. And, you can always ask your partner for more time, and
they’ll rarely say “no”.

As for the the specifics of your agenda: much of the time you’ll have an
idea of what you need to discuss based on whatever’s going on for you
and your partner. That said, here are a few ideas of things you might
want to think about discussing:

-   **Follow-ups** on actions/tasks from previous 1:1s: if either of you
    had actions/tasks that came out of your previous 1:1(s), it’s a
    good idea to follow-up on them and see where they stand. This is
    another reason why [taking notes](#taking-notes) is useful:
    it’ll help you remember to check in on actions as appropriate.

-   **“Current Events”**: after major announcements, or big changes, or
    any sort of “large” event in the organization at large, following
    up at the next 1:1 is a good idea. Most people need a bit of time
    to process change, and they’ll appreciate being able to talk
    through how it affects them in a private setting. If you’ve built
    a good relationship, it can be the only place where someone feels
    comfortable raising concerns. And, if there’s some action people
    need to take, they’re going to be much more likely to get it done
    if you reinforce the request by following up individually.

-   **Feedback**: this is a big topic, more than can be covered here.
    That said, 1:1s are a great time to deliver feedback. Indeed, a
    major reason to have regular 1:1s is to build the relationship and
    space where delivering feedback is easier.

-   **Coaching/mentoring**: if you’re working with someone on an ongoing
    basis, helping them learn or work on new skills, your weekly 1:1
    is a great time to check in on goals, discuss progress, provide
    pointers on direction, etc.

-   **Conversations about Diversity and Inclusion**: 18F highly values
    diversity and inclusion, but talking about these topics can be
    difficult -- especially for those to whom these are new topics.
    For example, some people new to 18F are confused by the “guysbot”
    in Slack, but may not feel comfortable asking about it publically.
    Once you’ve spent some time building the relationship, your 1:1
    can become an excellent place to talk with people about diversity
    and inclusion in a friendly, non-judgemental way.

-   **Question of the Week**: some managers like to have prepare a
    “question of the week” that they ask in all their 1:1s. Sometimes
    this can help with the “data collection” part of management, or it
    can just prompt discussion. There are some great resources in the
    [*Further Reading*](#further-reading) section below that can help
    provide potential topics, or you can of course bring your own.

Of course, these are just starting points. As you practice and build
your relationships, you’ll find what works best for you and the folks
you meet with.

## What to cover during the “future” part of the agenda?

In practice, most people don’t get to this part every week, or even
every-other week. Long-term goals are, well, long-term -- so it’s rare
for there to be much motion week-to-week. Still, it’s a good idea to
keep this on the agenda every week: it’ll help you remember to focus in
on long-term goals regularly, and make sure you’re helping your partner
make progress towards those goals.

Long-term discussions tend to be most closely like coaching or
mentorship discussions: the model that seems to work best is to ask your
partner for their goals, and help keep them accountable to those goals.
If you have specific guidance on how to achieve those goals you can of
course offer it, but it’s far more likely that your role will be more
about tracking and gentle prodding.

For example, say you’re working with someone who expresses an interest
in learning Go. The discussion might go something like this:

> Them: I’d like to learn Go in the next few months.
>
> You: Oh, that sounds great. What’s your first step going to be?
>
> Them: I think I’ll work through the online Tour of Go, use that as a
> starting point
>
> You: That sounds good, when do you want to aim to get that done by?
>
> Them: Well, this week is pretty busy, so maybe by the end of next
> week?
>
> You: Great, good luck! I’m sure if you run into trouble you could ask
> someone in \#go for help.

*\[two weeks later\]*

> You: Hey, how’d the Tour of Go exercise go?
>
> Them: Pretty good, I got about 90% of the way through.
>
> You: Cool, was that enough? Or are you planning on doing the last 10%?
>
> Them: Nah, I think I’m ready to try a real project with it.
>
> You: Great, do you have any projects yet?


*\[and so forth...\]*

The thing about long-term goals is that it’s easy to not make any
progress on them. It’s far too easy to push off long-term personal
improvement when faced with the day-today. So -- somewhat
counterintuitively -- in order to be really supportive you do need to
push a bit. Of course, you don’t want to be *too* pushy, but it’s
completely fine to ask for goals and gently hold people accountable to
the goals they set.

## Taking notes

**You should take notes during your 1:1s.** Notes will make sure you
remember to follow up on items that came up a long time ago. They’ll
help you notice trends and themes, and to be precise about them (“hey,
we’ve talked three times in the last month about some issues with
Project X, what’s going on there?”). Notes can also help you follow-up
on progress week-to-week. Finally, if you do get into the unpleasant
situation of having to deal with a performance problem, your notes will
be critical to helping you document how you’ve been addressing that
problem.

While it’s true that taking notes can sometimes get in the way of a 1:1
feeling truly conversational, remember that 1:1s are meetings too, and
effective meetings have notes. The specific format for notes don’t seem
to matter much. Some people prefer to take notes by hand, others
digitally; and, of course, there are tons of different ways to take and
organize notes, be they analog or digital.

It’s probably a good idea to keep all of the notes from each person’s
1:1 together in the same place (rather than scattered throughout a
notebook, say). That way you can easily review all your notes on past
meetings, and pull out trends like “hm, they’ve mentioned feeling
overworked the last three times we met.”

One (digital) pattern that many have found to be effective is the shared
running notes document. This is a shared document (e.g. a Google Doc)
that both parties have access to, and that contains both notes from
previous 1:1s and a running agenda for the next one. This lets either
person drop items into the agenda during in between meetings. It also
emphasizes that the agenda is a shared responsibility, and many like the
transparency this sharing brings. You may still occasionally want to (or
need to) take private notes, but that’s fairly rare.

Another pattern that some find effective is to send out a summary email
after the meeting is over, listing any actions that were agreed to
during the meeting. This can provide a shared sense of accountability to
anything that you decide during the meetings.

## Further Reading

There is a **ton** of material out there on 1:1s! Here are just some of
them that other people at 18F have found useful in learning more:

-   [*Experience Design's 1:1
    guide*](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1rghReSVYoWSnYvfo8ZP_Fr9xJRznEuGXw3rsc-Z58v0/edit)
    and [*one-page
    version*](https://drive.google.com/a/gsa.gov/file/d/0B_NVRFrsefnvaDdRRTh3ZnFGeDg/view) (18F)
    — the guide that the XD chapter developed for 1:1s. It covers
    similar ground to this guide.

-   [*The Update, The Vent, and The
    Disaster*](http://randsinrepose.com/archives/the-update-the-vent-and-the-disaster/)
    (Rands in Repose) — another short introduction to 1:1s, by Rands
    (a well-regarded writer about engineering leadership).

-   [*One on One
    Meetings*](http://www.wearecto2.com/blog/2015/9/9/one-on-one-meetings)
    (Doc Norton) — yet another short introduction to 1:1s overall.
    This one has a somewhat different suggested agenda, and some good
    potential questions to ask.

-   [*Questions for our first
    1:1*](http://larahogan.me/blog/first-one-on-one-questions/)
    (Lara Hogan) — some really great questions to ask in a first 1:1
    with a new team member. Or at any time, really: they’re good
    conversation starters.

-   [*Safari Books Better
    1-1s*](https://www.safaribooksonline.com/blog/better-1-1s/)
    (O’Reilly Media) — automated weekly emails with suggested
    O3 topics.

-   Manager Tools’ [*One-on-Ones
    podcast*](https://www.manager-tools.com/2005/07/the-single-most-effective-management-tool-part-1)
    (first of 3 parts) — introduction to One-on-Ones from the Manager
    Tools empire. The “10/10/10” format suggested above comes from
    them, for example. If you like Managers Tools’ style, they have
    [*many more podcasts on
    1:1s*](https://www.manager-tools.com/map-universe/trinity-one-ones)
    to listen to.

-   [*Topics for Engineering Facilitator
    Meetings*](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_NKx-zMwYqBqV48k062j4X2zdhKdYUgYlnM3wMpn5p8/edit#heading=h.oqzmgpl64nct)
    — suggested conversation starters for 1:1s (and group meetings,
    too), collected by the Engineering chapter.

## Alternate strategies

As noted in the introduction, 1:1s are *a* tool (and a common one), but
not necessarily the *only* tool. If they’re not working for you or your
partner, you should feel free to explore alternate strategies. Exploring
alternate strategies completely is beyond the scope of this already-long
document, but here are a couple of quick “sketches” about some
alternatives that might be worth trying:

-   Small group meetings, such as the facilitation groups, can be more
    effective support structures for certain kinds of problems (you
    can see this overlap in the [*Topics for Engineering Facilitator
    Meetings*](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_NKx-zMwYqBqV48k062j4X2zdhKdYUgYlnM3wMpn5p8/edit#heading=h.oqzmgpl64nct)
    document linked above). They can encourage the creation of a wider
    relationship support network than just 1:1, and can provide a more
    diverse set of options than a single person can. Conversely, it
    can be harder to share certain kinds of problems with a larger
    group than with a single person -- it’s probably harder to build
    the same level of trust with 5-7 people as with a single one.

-   I have a friend who’s a VP at a manufacturing plant. She doesn’t
    hold 1:1s with her staff, but instead “walks the floor” every day
    and meets with each of them, quickly, to discuss the day’s goals,
    problems on the floor, and such. If something big comes up,
    they’ll schedule more time later in the day/week. In effect, she
    replaces a longer weekly 1:1 with usually much shorter
    (3-5 minute) daily individual check-ins.
    
    The mechanics of a “walk the floor” model would be different on a
    distributed team, but it seems likely that a similar model could
    be replicated with Slack taking the place of “walking the floor”.

---

[^1]: Throughout this document I use the term “partner” to mean “the
    person with whom you’re holding the 1:1”. This replaces the stuffy
    and more Management-ese term “direct” that many 1:1 guides use, and
    emphasizes that at 18F the person you’re holding 1:1s with may not
    formally report to you. And even if they do, you’re more likely to
    be in a servent-leadership role than in a command-and-control
    settings.

[^2]: Vacations are an exception: if one of you is going to be gone for
    a week, obviously don’t intrude on vacation to hold meetings! But
    they’re basically the only good reason to completely cancel (rather
    than reschedule) a 1:1.
