---
title: RFC 001 - TTS Supervisors should be permanent
date_approved: 2021-07-20
---

## The problem / situation / context

TTS does not have a consistent practice about whether supervisory roles should
be permanent or term positions.[1] Roughly half of supervisors in TTS are on
term appointments, and half are on career appointments. Currently, whenever a
new supervisory role is established, or a supervisory role needs to be filled,
TTS Talent must determine anew whether that role should be permanent.

Supervisors play a crucial role in TTS's success. They provide direction for the
organization and teams they lead. They provide career guidance, mentorship, and
support to those whom they supervise and their peers. They make choices daily
that affect our partners and the public.

Due to the fact that we are government employees, supervisors have an additional
role: helping their teams and direct reports with support and guidance in
navigating the federal regulatory landscape. As any government supervisor can
confirm, the obligations of government supervisors involves a steep learning
curve. Furthermore, given that many employees are term employees, it is
essential that supervisors are able to immediately contribute to the growth and
performance of those they supervise.

Although term supervisors can bring new ideas and fresh perspectives, the
practical reality is that novelty is generally less important than stability,
experience, and demonstrated commitment and contributions to the organization's
values and work.

Some may argue that terms can limit the negative effect of bad supervisors or
potentially stale visions. Terms should not, however, be an excuse for
inadequate performance management.[2] And whatever the length of appointment,
all TTS employees must maintain a commitment to our values of inclusion,
integrity, and impact. Any supervisor -- term or permanent -- should be held to
high performance standards and expectations.

The bottom line is that TTS should establish a default rule for permanence in
supervisory roles.

And yet, classifying a role as a permanent role does not ensure that the role is
sustainable or that the individual needs to stay in that role to remain at TTS.
Within TTS, for a number of reasons (including unclear expectations and limited
support), supervisor roles have led to burnout. We need to change how we support
and invest in supervisors to improve outcomes for the supervisors and their
teams. And for those who choose to return to individual-contributor roles, there
needs to be a clear path for them to do so.

## The proposed path forward

TTS MUST readdress how it approaches supervisory roles, including stronger
training, more space and support, and clearer connections between a supervisor
and their direct reports. As part of this, all supervisory roles in TTS SHOULD
be classified as permanent positions and all vacancies in supervisory roles MUST
be competed. Additionally, all supervisory roles must be evaluated and measured
for competencies related to Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, and Accessibility. TTS
MUST develop a clearer set of performance expectations and support structures
for new and existing supervisors so that they can better provide mentoring,
direction, and support to their direct reports. And, finally, TTS MUST establish
policies (likely, through a new RFC or a handbook page) documenting supervisory
"offboarding" for individuals who transition to individual-contributor roles in
TTS.

Although there will be exceptions (e.g., a political appointment or the
establishment of a temporary office), such exceptions MUST be approved by the
Director and only apply to the specific personnel action. In other words, even
if an exception is made for a particular role, a new exception would be required
upon a subsequent vacancy.

## Alternatives considered

1. _Evaluate supervisory positions on a case by case basis_. This is the status
   quo. TTS evaluates each position and determines whether that position should
   be temporary or permanent.

2. _Allow each operational unit to decide for itself_. This alternative exposes
   the organization to all of the risks of the status quo (e.g., inadequate
   performance management, lack of attention to DEIA goals), without any of the
   benefits of consistency, stability, or experience.

## Equity and Inclusion

Creating a permanent supervisory cohort presents two unique risks and several
advantages for diversity, equity, inclusion, and accessibility (DEIA) goals.

First, if we hire permanent supervisors and fail to evaluate their commitment to
DEIA, it can embed a culture that does not embrace DEIA goals. Second,
permanence limits the number of opportunities for career growth for _all_
individuals in the organization, which creates a premium on leadership
development.

Nevertheless, a permanent supervisory cohort also presents unique opportunities
for DEIA goals. First, if we are intentional about evaluating and measuring
supervisors' commitment to DEIA, we are more likely to embed DEIA goals across
the entire organization. Second, by investing in training for a permanent
supervisory cohort, we can level up TTS's commitment to currently under-supported
efforts (e.g., reasonable accommodations or sponsorship). Third, by reducing the
_churn_ associated with supervisory roles, there is greater opportunity to
clarify career progression opportunities, which benefits all TTS employees but
minimizes inequity associated with a lack of transparency or accountability.

Ultimately, a permanent supervisory cohort presents risks and opportunities that
must be intentionally managed and considered to promote DEIA goals.

## Premortem / Review

The hypothesis of this RFC is that a permanent supervisory cohort will lead to
improved employee satisfaction and development, improved DEIA outcomes, and less
uncertainty around career growth opportunities in the organization.

To measure these goals, TTS should examine results from the FEVS (for career
employees), the TTS Inclusion and Belonging Survey, feedback through informal
channels through the TTS Leadership Survey, and employee retention/attrition
rates.

TTS should revisit this policy in 18 months after adoption to review its impact
on those goals.

---

[1]: Not all management or leadership roles are "supervisory" roles. By statute,
a supervisor is "an individual employed by an agency having authority in the
interest of the agency to hire, direct, assign, promote, reward, transfer,
furlough, layoff, recall, suspend, discipline, or remove employees, to adjust
their grievances, or to effectively recommend such action, if the exercise of
the authority is not merely routine or clerical in nature but requires the
consistent exercise of independent judgment." For purposes of this RFC,
"supervisors" are limited to those roles that meet the minimum requirements for
application of the OPM General Schedule Supervisory Guide. There are other
recognized leadership roles in government, including CSRA Supervisors, Leaders,
Team Leaders, and Management Official (CSRA).

[2] In some cases, term appointments have been an excuse to keep low-performing
supervisors in roles of responsibility and supervision because it's easier for
their supervisors to just "wait it out." This practice is unacceptable; term
appointments should not be an excuse for ignoring performance management.
