---
title: Play 2 - Build connections and lay the foundation for solid relationships
tags:
  - supervisor playbook
  - leadership
---

Relationships are the key to making anything happen at work, and effective
communication paired with trust is the foundation upon which they are built.
This is daunting enough when you step into a new role, though you likely have a
fair amount of connections to build off of and leverage. If you are a new hire,
this can be especially challenging, with few or no connections to leverage.

Start by being proactive in making connections with people; ask your supervisor
and peers to introduce you to other people and follow up with those people to
get to know them a bit more. One of the most effective ways to build a base
level of trust quickly with people is to **learn and remember their names and a
small detail about them**. This is a great way to make a positive first
impression and helps yield future productive conversations. Another small
measure is **following up with any requests you make or questions you ask with a
sincere thank you** - an email or Slack message works! This also helps build
trust and confidence in others that they can depend on you, and you value their
time and work.

Another effective way to build trust and establish connections is by offering to
**take on small tasks** and deliver results for others. This has an added
benefit of providing a great opportunity to practice receiving and making
explicit requests and following through on them. In doing this, you are
reinforcing that you are dependable and get the job done. Also, it will be
easier in the beginning to dig into something with the team and be more hands
on.

Not only will this help build strong bonds quickly with the team, it will also
provide you with much needed context about the work itself, the challenges the
team faces, and the opportunities for improvement. Furthermore, do not be afraid
of sharing work in progress! Not only does this demonstrate that you are
following through, you can also gather input and feedback earlier, which can
help in course correcting or improving the quality of the final product even
more. As time goes on, taking on small tasks will become harder to do as your
focus shifts and you delegate more tasks, so take advantage of it while you can!

## Action Items

- [ ] Learn about your supervisory peers and proactively make the connections
      with them, especially if you don’t already have one. In TTS,
      informal/general
      [Supervisor Circles](https://docs.google.com/document/d/14ztT9Zf0LV9sIDuzGFc25W_DAxTgq_ZFJQd7LZ2Fhgg/edit)
      are organized via Slack each month. Join in when you can.
      
- [ ] Learn about and connect with any other colleagues who may be directly
      involved with any work you’ll be responsible for
      
- [ ] Request invites to all existing meetings that are relevant to you and your
      role

  - [ ] Determine which meetings are important to attend and where your presence
        will help
        
  - [ ] In the beginning you will likely attend more meetings than you would
        normally as you continue to build context and relationships. Communicate
        this to your team, especially if you are joining meetings that your
        predecessor did not attend
        
  - [ ] It is important to determine which meetings are required for you, which
        are optional but would benefit from having your presence/lead to more
        productive outcomes, and those you do not need to attend
        
  - [ ] If you are speaking about anything or are responsible for any action
        items at the end of the meeting, it is generally helpful to send a quick
        summary and clearly list what you will accomplish and by when to whoever
        organized the meeting and/or tasked you with something

- [ ] Participate in some of the day-to-day team activities early on

  - [ ] Collaborate with team members on their work (for example, pair
        programming with engineers if you’re an engineering supervisor)
  - [ ] Take on a small, non-critical task to free up team bandwidth on bigger
        items (for example, conducting code reviews if you’re an engineering
        supervisor)

- [ ] Follow up conversations with quick emails that summarize everything and
      clearly list any action items with due dates, and ask clarifying questions
      if information is not known

## Play 2 Reflection Questions

- Why is building trust important in the leader-follower relationship? What have
  you seen leaders do to successfully build trust, and what practices might you
  adopt as your own?
- What relationship-building strategies have been successful for you in the
  past, that you might leverage in your new role?

## Play 2 Case Studies

- You have been assigned to supervise a new unit where you and another
  Supervisor are being tasked with working on projects together. You have worked
  with this Supervisor previously, and your experience was less-than-stellar.
  This Supervisor is hard to work with, complains often and uses their influence
  to bypass rules and processes. How do you build a positive working
  relationship with this Supervisor without becoming frustrated?
  
- You’ve noticed that the time spent during the 1:1’s you schedule has become
  wasteful. The employees don’t say much during the 1:1’s and have asked you to
  stop scheduling them, although you feel they are necessary. How might you
  change your approach, to ensure they are useful for all?
