---
title:
  Play 10 - Promote a healthy culture of improvement through constructive
  feedback
tags:
  - supervisor playbook
  - leadership
---

Feedback, similar to delegation, is a fundamental tool in a supervisor’s (or
anyone’s!) toolbox that can be challenging to use correctly. However, it is a
critical skill to build and leverage, both in terms of providing feedback and
receiving feedback. As a supervisor, you need to both share constructive
feedback _with_ others and solicit and incorporate feedback _from_ others.

**Whenever you are offered feedback, it can be jarring even when you’re prepared
to receive it or explicitly asked for it**. This is because we generally may not
want to hear or receive information about ourselves, especially difficult
information. It is important, however, to take the time to self-reflect on how
things are going, share these insights with others, and ask for their feedback
and observations in an effort to cause awareness and improve. For example, you
could ask your supervisor specific things you can do to improve your performance
or you could ask individuals on your team what you can do to make them feel more
invested in their working life.

There are many paths to gathering or soliciting feedback. One strategy is to ask
for it informally during 1:1s. Asking simple, open-ended questions to see what
someone wants you to continue doing, stop doing, change, etc. can be very
helpful. Recognize that this can put folks on the spot, and they may not be
ready or comfortable, so be sure to provide alternative ways to share this
information (e.g., an anonymous form, a note to your supervisor, etc.) and that
you would genuinely like to receive it. It is also easier to solicit feedback
when you’ve made it a regular occurrence, not a one-off surprise.

Be sure that you are in active listening mode. Let the person complete their
thoughts (or read through their whole message), ask follow-up questions as
needed, and repeat things back to make sure you understand them correctly. If
you need time to think over a piece of feedback, tell the person! It’s better to
acknowledge and pause, than have a gut reaction.

When it is time to share feedback with others, note that feedback is most useful
when it’s **timely, constructive, specific, and actionable, but there are many
nuances to this**. In order to ensure it’s a positive experience for the
individual, be honest about your intent: is it to praise a job well done, to
help course correct behavior, or is it to coach or mentor the individual to grow
their skills? Knowing why you want to provide feedback is important: it helps
you frame the feedback constructively, and helps you avoid lashing out when
feeling frustrated.

Next, **make sure it’s a time and setting where someone is receptive and able to
receive the feedback**. Timeliness is very important when it comes to feedback –
the sooner after an event, the better. But, sometimes it cannot be provided at
that moment. Not only do you want to make sure that it’s an appropriate time and
setting, you also want to make sure that the individual can be receptive to the
feedback as well. In your 1:1’s with your team members, ask how they prefer to
receive feedback to understand what works best for them.

Lastly, if the feedback involves anything where there is an expectation that an
action will be taken or a change will be made, document the explicit request:
what the individual will do, when the action or task will be due, and what the
expected outcome(s) will be. This will ensure that the feedback is taken
seriously and taken to heart.

## Action Items

- Review the
  [SBI framework](https://www.mindtools.com/pages/article/situation-behavior-impact-feedback.htm)
  and
  [5 Tips for Giving Better Feedback](https://www.managementcenter.org/article/five-tips-for-giving-better-feedback/).
- Consider your recent interactions with your direct reports:
  - How many direct reports have received feedback from you in the past month?
  - Are there any differences in who is receiving feedback, and who is not?
  - Who needs to receive feedback and hasn’t gotten it from you yet? What is the
    next step you need to take, in order to deliver that feedback? Take that
    step.
- How often have you solicited feedback from others about yourself?

## Play 10 Reflection Questions

- As you watch the team in action, what cultural team norms have you observed?
  Which norms are explicit, and which are implicit? What are team norms that you
  want to foster?
- Think about all the people who you will work with and who you want to learn
  from. What barriers, if any, do you anticipate? How might you approach these
  challenges?

## Play 10 Case Studies

- You provide a team member with some constructive feedback based on a recent
  interaction they had with the team. You notice that they take the feedback
  personally and react negatively in the moment. How might this impact the team
  member, and the team at large? What consequences could come of this
  interaction in the future? What will you do to resolve the situation, and what
  could you do differently in the future?
- A team member comes to you with concerns about how a project is going, and
  while not casting blame and remaining professional, strongly implies that your
  leadership and/or decisions have had adverse impacts on the team being able to
  succeed. How will you receive this information? What will you do going forward
  to adjust course?
