---
title: Play 8 -  Be decisive and involve others whenever possible
tags:
  - supervisor playbook
  - leadership
---

There will be many times where you will have to make a decision without all of
the information available. Asking clarifying questions and quickly
gathering/assessing data helps get you to a point where you can reasonably move
forward. You will never collect all of the information: plan based on what you
do know, understand current requirements and goals, and be ready to adjust.

There are numerous ways to make a decision, and it is important to know and
understand the pros and cons of each. Take time to learn and review the
[decision-making models outlined in the People Cards guide](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1fuuIzOXxfnXmmL1t5ridBQdwxS1NPgk2lmvlPbhRzHc/edit#heading=h.lrplfxibnfah).
This will help you prepare for the future, be intentional about your approach,
and choose the appropriate decision-making method for the situation.

Highly collaborative decision-making, such as consensus, is time consuming and
not always possible. At minimum, **try to seek input from others so that
everyone feels respected and heard**, and you have taken advantage of the
expertise of others who are more knowledgeable than you. This will help you make
an informed decision and one that will likely be accepted by others, even if not
everyone agrees with it. Only make unilateral decisions as a last resort, as
they can erode trust.

If you are solely responsible for something that requires a decision, then a
unilateral decision may be your only option - and that’s fine! However, if there
are any opportunities to solicit input or do some research beforehand, you’ll be
better served by having a clearer picture of the state of things before moving
forward. Communicating your intent and reasoning is also crucial to building
trust.

**Once you make a decision, follow through with it**. Stay on top of action
items and key deliverables, check in on progress, and stick to the plan as much
as possible. When presented with new information, be sure to assess and
communicate any changes or adjustments as early as possible. Shifting direction
is fine, but you want to minimize surprises and maintain expectations as much as
possible

## Action Items

- Review recent decisions made on your team:
  - What was successful?
  - What was challenging?
  - What will you keep doing, and what will you do differently?
- Create actionable goals to help improve your decision-making skills. For
  example: “decrease unilateral decisions about product design, in favor of
  consensus-based models.”

## Play 8 Reflection Questions

- What are some ways in which you have empowered yourself by making a decision?
- How do you empower others by being a macro manager?

## Play 8 Case Studies

- You have been assigned to work on a new project but are reluctant to integrate
  the team into the process because you want to avoid additional complexity and
  a potential clash of opinions that happens often. How will you handle this
  situation?
- You’ve heard from multiple supervisors during supervisor meetings that they
  don’t understand how your team supports the overall vision and mission of the
  organization. Your team handles tasks that are non-client-facing, unlike other
  teams. How will you approach this pushback?
