---
title: Play 1 - Understand the power differential when becoming a supervisor
tags:
  - supervisor playbook
  - leadership
---

When you became a supervisor, **you immediately took on a position of greater
power and influence with formal authority**. This is true of a front-line
supervisory role all the way to a senior executive overseeing a whole
department, organization, or agency. Furthermore, **you also made a shift from
doing the work itself to managing the work and guiding others doing the work**.

Your additional responsibilities may include approving timecards, conducting
performance evaluations, and hiring and letting folks go, amongst other items.
Now that this shift has occurred, recognize the power you now have. You are no
longer solely responsible for your individual contribution to the team; **you
are responsible for the team itself**.

Now that you have more formal authority, there is a direct responsibility and
weight to carry the success and well-being of a program/product/project. Be
cognizant that your words, presence, and actions carry a lot more weight and
have more visibility than when you were an individual contributor. In fact,
**there is a shift in how you are now perceived and regarded within the
organization**. You no longer represent just a voice of expertise; you have more
power and represent the organization.

This new power carries many nuances with it. For example, you may find
resistance from others on your team who may have applied to the role and didn’t
get selected and/or you may find resistance from team members who are no longer
your peers and are now your direct reports.

Furthermore, you will also start finding yourself in different conversations
that make you privy to more sensitive information that cannot just be shared out
as is. **You will have to make the determination of what is appropriate to
filter out and share depending on the audience** (e.g., your peers, your team
members, external parties, etc.). This can be daunting at first, and early on it
may be helpful to explicitly ask your supervisor or work with them to understand
what is appropriate to disseminate to others and what is to be kept
confidential. Some of these new conversations might also not add value to your
team by sharing with them. It’s helpful to check with your audience to know what
does and does not feel useful to share.

To balance this new power, it is important to focus on your soft skills. No
longer is your technical or subject matter expertise the most important skill
you have - **it’s the soft skills that make the difference, and you’ll need to
rely on and refine these soft skills over time to minimize power struggles and
conflict**. Strong communication; coaching and mentoring others; holding others
accountable while remaining empathetic; becoming a champion and advocate for
those that report to you; and being fair and equitable, among other things, are
the critical skills that will help you succeed in the role. Remember, your
primary focus is now on building a team, cultivating a healthy team and work
culture, and ensuring that the team achieves its goals!

## Action Items

- [ ] Upon starting your new role, stop doing your old job:

  - [ ] Work with your supervisor to come up with a transition plan to account
        for anything that is currently ongoing or needs to be picked up by
        someone else
        
  - [ ] You may very well be tasked with helping backfill your previous role;
        work with your supervisor to do this, especially if you’re new to things
        like hiring and interviewing
        
- [ ] Becoming a supervisor for the first time is a career change; work with
      your supervisor to develop a professional growth plan to build and refine
      soft skills and emotional intelligence in this new role
      
- [ ] Manage your own emotions and reactions: stop and think before engaging
      with others in any communication medium to consider both the intent of
      what you’re about to put in the world and how it may be received and
      perceived
      
  - [ ] Ask yourself questions such as “what is my intent here?” or “how might
        others perceive or interpret this?” to help determine what is best

## Play 1 Reflection Questions

- Do you think the balance of power has shifted between supervisors and
  employees now that most organizations have shifted to a remote workforce? In
  what way(s) does power shape an inclusive workplace?
- Often, even the most resistant teams will begin to adopt and emulate the
  practices they witness. What will you do to ensure that the work gets
  completed satisfactorily while ensuring that your team’s needs are met? What
  do you want your team to adopt and emulate from you?

## Play 1 Case Studies

- Most of the people on the team you now supervise have been with the
  organization for at least 10 years or more and have established great rapport
  with your boss. Although you have shared with them on a number of occasions
  that you are now their first line of contact, they still continue to go to
  your boss with concerns. How can you establish a good relationship with them
  without misusing or abusing your power? How will you help them create a
  healthy level of respect for you?
- You send an instant message to one of your team members asking them if they
  have a minute to talk. There is no additional context given in your message.
  That team member responds immediately and questions what the conversation is
  about and what they have done wrong. How does your message trigger a
  flight/fright/fight response? Do you think this type of messaging disrupts
  their flow? Why or why not? What will you do to ensure the communication you
  provide does not leave the employee with a barrage of scenarios in their head,
  wondering if they have done something wrong?
