# Using your YubiKey

Notes on installing and setting up your _YubiKey 4_ for various platforms and applications.

## Introduction

The YubiKey is a hardware device manufactured by Yubico that provides a hardware "second factor" enabling true two-factor authentication: something you know (your password) and something you have (your YubiKey). It enables you to easily and securely log in to accounts by emitting one-time passwords or using a FIDO-based public/private key pair generated by the device.

### Operation

- Simply plug it into an unused USB port.
- During certain types of authentication you will be prompted on screen to press the inset copper button marked with and (often lit) "Y".

### Security Hints

- If you trust your environment (like at home) you can keep the YubiKey near or even plugged into your computer.
- In low trust environments (coffee shops, hotel rooms, etc.) keep your YubiKey with you at all times (in a pocket or purse). If your computer is compromised, it won't be accessible without the YubiKey that you have on you.
- Do not use SMS text messages for two-factor authentication.

## Enable YubiKey TFA for applications

_See also: [How to Secure Your Google, Dropbox, and GitHub Accounts With a U2F Key](http://www.howtogeek.com/232360/how-to-secure-your-google-dropbox-and-github-accounts-with-a-u2f-key/)_

### LastPass

This requires a YubiKey token (cover the button for approximately one second) on laptop/desktop to unlock LastPass.

- My Vault -> Account Settings -> Multifactor Options
  - Set up one free option (e.g., [Google Authenticator](https://support.google.com/accounts/answer/1066447?hl=en)) - this is a useful backup
  - YubiKey (an easier option) is available when using [LastPass Premium](https://lastpass.com/yubico/) (\$12/year)
    - Select the YubiKey option.
    - Insert the YubiKey device into a USB port on your computer.
    - Focus your cursor on the "YubiKey #1" field.
    - Press the button on the YubiKey device.
    - A long string of dots should appear in the YubiKey #1 field.
    - Change the "YubiKey Authentication" status to "Enabled"
    - Set "Enabled" ==> "Yes"
    - Set "Permit Offline Access" ==> "Disallow"
    - Press the Update button
    - Enter your LastPass master password and press Confirm.
    - YubiKey is now enabled for your LastPass account.
- If you have a _YubiKey Neo_ (CivicActions uses the _YubiKey 4_ model) and your phone supports NFC, you can touch the Neo against your phone to unlock on mobile.

### Google

For each Google account you have:

- Visit <https://accounts.google.com/b/0/SmsAuthSettings#devices>
- Enable TFA, and complete the phone verification process (phone will act as backup TFA).
- Click on "Security Keys" and follow instructions to add YubiKey.
- Return to the main page and add a second phone and/or print backup codes.
- As long as you have a backup, you can also install the YubiKey Authenticator app, and configure your account to use that for the backup TFA instead of SMS/phone - this is the same as the Google Authenticator app, except that it stores the credentials on your YubiKey instead of the phone.
- If you have funky devices/apps that don't support TFA, you can set an application specific password using that tab. This includes sending E-mail from your personal Gmail account using your civicactions.com IMAP, for instance.

### GitHub

- Visit <https://github.com/settings/two_factor_authentication/configure>
- Enable TFA, and complete the phone verification process (phone will act as backup TFA).
- Then you can "Register new device" in the "Security keys" section

### AWS Root Account

For each AWS account you have:

- Visit <https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/home?region=us-east-1#security_credential>
- Under MFA, add a Virtual MFA device.
- Use YubiKey Authenticator app to scan the QR code, and enter the response code, then close and reopen the app and enter the second response code.

### AWS IAM Account

- Visit <https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/home?region=us-east-1#users>
- Choose your user name
- Click on Manage your MFA device
- Use Google Authenticator app to scan the QR code, and enter the response code
- then close and reopen the app and enter the second response code.
- _using YubiKey untested - don't have YubiKey Authenticator set up_

## Securing your Laptop

Your laptop should lock (require a password to resume) on screen close and after 15 minutes idle time.

- [GNU/Linux specific instructions](linux.md)
- [Mac OS X specific instructions](macosx.md)

## YubiKey Neo U2F Setup

Some older YubiKeys (like the Neo) need to have U2F (Universal Second Factor) enabled before use. _(If you are unsure, ask any IT staff member or on the [#general](https://civicactions.slack.com/messages/general) slack channel.)_

For these YubiKeys, you may need to install and configure some software that "personalizes" your YubiKey. _Note: newer YubiKeys may not require this step._

### Install Packages

#### Arch

_See also: <https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/yubikey>_

```
pacaur -S perl-net-ldap-server    # this is a prerequisite
pacaur -S yubikey-neo-manager-git
```

#### Fedora

_See also: <https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/Using_YubiKeys_with_Fedora>_

```
dnf copr enable jjelen/yubikey-neo-manager
dnf copr enable spartacus06/yubikey-utils
dnf install yubikey-neo-manager yubioath-desktop yubikey-personalization-gui
```

#### Ubuntu, Xubuntu

_See also: <https://askubuntu.com/questions/720314/how-to-install-yubikey-personalization-tool-on-ubuntu>_

```
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:yubico/stable
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install yubikey-neo-manager yubikey-personalization yubikey-personalization-gui
```

#### Mac OS X

Download and install the [YubiKey Personalization Tool](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/yubikey-personalization-tool/id638161122?mt=12) from the Mac App Store at [https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/yubikey-personalization-tool](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/yubikey-personalization-tool/id638161122?mt=12)

### Personalize your YubiKey

This allows you to use your YubiKey with Google TFA (new fangled U2F), as well as LastPass (which uses the OTP application).

#### GNU/Linux command line

```
$ neoman
# Enable OTP, U2F, CCID checkboxes if needed, follow instructions to add and remove key.

​$ ykpersonalize -2 -ochal-resp -ochal-hmac -ohmac-lt64 -oserial-api-visible
```

#### Mac OSX YubiKey tool

_This should be straightforward, but waiting for a pull request that clearly explains how to:_

- Enable `OTP`, `U2F` & `CCID`
- Personalize **Configuration Slot 2** with options:
  - `chal-resp` (Set challenge-response mode)
  - `chal-hmac` (Generate HMAC-SHA1 challenge responses)
  - `hmac-lt64` (Calculate HMAC on less than 64 bytes input)
  - `serial-api-visible` (Allow serial number to be read using an API call)
